Add 3->4 upgrading information about NDC, light(), and reverse-z (#9940)
godotengine/godot-docs: tutorials/migrating/upgrading_to_godot_4.rst

Updating shaders
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

There have been some changes to shaders that aren't covered by the upgrade tool. 

> You will need to make some manual changes, especially if your shader is advanced.

Reviewer: ... especially if your shader _performs advanced operations_ ?

Author: "Advanced operations" isn't *quite* right, either. What I want here is a disclaimer that you still need to make manual changes, and that the list here can't catch literally every change.

Things that should be covered by "advanced" or its replacement, without explicitly listed them out:
- complex `light()` functions that make assumptions about defaults or the standard shader lighting function
- assumptions about the specifics of coordinate spaces, like the NDC change or the internals of the transform matrixes. 
- using clip space directly (all the cases in the reverse-z blogpost that don't have example snippets)

Just using a transform matrix to convert coordinates is not an "advanced operation", but taking the matrix apart and manually reassembling it for some other purpose is.

I should probably just add an explicit note that this list is *not* exhaustive, and your shader may not work even if all the changes are made.

Reviewer 2: I think you can simplify and say something like _especially if your shader uses a custom `light()` function or includes coordinate space transformations._

Advanced users will be flagged about the risks, while beginner users will know that those are advanced things that they are not using.

Reviewer: Yeah I get it. I guess there is no sweet spot as it's hard to qualify what may require some rewrite and what may not.
It's just that "advanced shader" doesn't speak much to me (the shader itself is not advanced, but more the actions it performs, or the use you make of the shading functionalities). But I'm not a native speaker so others may feel differently.

Author: I ended up using the specific cases that clayjohn mentioned, rather than trying to generalize too much.

I also added another paragraph at the end which solves what I saw as the actual problem.

- :ref:`Built in matrix variables were renamed. <doc_spatial_shader>`
- Particles shaders no longer use the ``vertex()`` processor function. Instead
  they use ``start()`` and ``process()``.

> - In Forward+ and Mobile, normalized device coordinates now have a Z-range of [0,1]

Reviewer: In Forward+ and Mobile _renderers_ ... ?

  instead of [-1,1]. When reconstructing NDC from ``SCREEN_UV`` and depth, use 
  ``vec3 ndc = vec3(SCREEN_UV * 2.0 - 1.0, depth);`` instead of 

>   ``vec3 ndc = vec3(SCREEN_UV, depth) * 2.0 - 1.0;``. Compatibility is unchanged.

Reviewer: Compatibility _renderer_ is unchanged ?

- :ref:`Built in matrix variables were renamed. <doc_spatial_shader>`
- Particles shaders no longer use the ``vertex()`` processor function. Instead
  they use ``start()`` and ``process()``.
- In the Forward+ and Mobile renderers, normalized device coordinates now have a Z-range of ``[0.0,1.0]``
  instead of ``[-1.0,1.0]``. When reconstructing NDC from ``SCREEN_UV`` and depth, use 
  ``vec3 ndc = vec3(SCREEN_UV * 2.0 - 1.0, depth);`` instead of 
  ``vec3 ndc = vec3(SCREEN_UV, depth) * 2.0 - 1.0;``. The Compatibility renderer is unchanged,
  using the same NDC Z-range as 3.x.
- The lighting model changed. If your shader has a custom ``light()`` function,
  you may need to make changes to get the same visual result.
- In 4.3 and up, the reverse Z depth buffer technique is now implemented, which 
  may break advanced shaders. See 
  `Introducing Reverse Z (AKA I'm sorry for breaking your shader) <https://godotengine.org/article/introducing-reverse-z/>`__.

See :ref:`doc_shading_language` for more information.

> This list is not exhaustive. If you made all the changes mentioned here and your 
> shader still doesn't work, try asking for help in one of the community channels,
> or open an issue on GitHub.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This list is not exhaustive. If you made all the changes mentioned here and your 
shader still doesn't work, try asking for help in one of the `community channels <https://godotengine.org/community/>`__.
```

> 

Author: This might be asking for more support issues on github, but it's also how we found out about this issue...

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't tell people to open a bug report. We don't offer support through Github and asking for help porting from 3.x to 4.x is definitely something that should not be on Github.
